README.md, before:

# mmotley999 Add-Ons

## Installation

Add this repository to your Home Assistant installation by going to Supervisor -> Add-on Store, selecting the options icon (3 dots) in the upper-right, and click Repositories.

Add the following URL:

```txt
https://github.com/mmotley999/hassos-addons
```

## Add-on Provided by this repository

### x10mqtt

A simple MQTT gateway for the X10 CM11a serial interface.  Supports turning on and off X10 devices using MQTT topics.

### x10mqttbeta

Beta/testing version of the x10mqtt repo.  Currently used for testing CM17A support.

## Support

Please open an issue here on Github.

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2021 Mark Motley

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Added note to the README.md file first visible in Github so users will know that this project is no longer active.

README.md, after:

# mmotley999 Add-Ons

___
##**NOTE:  This addon is no longer being actively developed, as I no longer have access to X10 hardware for testing.**

###dbrand66 has written a Docker container that he has had success with.  It can be deployed via the Portainer addon in HA.  Check it out:  https://github.com/dbrand666/docker-heyu-mqtt
___

## Installation

Add this repository to your Home Assistant installation by going to Supervisor -> Add-on Store, selecting the options icon (3 dots) in the upper-right, and click Repositories.

Add the following URL:

```txt
https://github.com/mmotley999/hassos-addons
```

## Add-on Provided by this repository

### x10mqtt

A simple MQTT gateway for the X10 CM11a serial interface.  Supports turning on and off X10 devices using MQTT topics.

### x10mqttbeta

Beta/testing version of the x10mqtt repo.  Currently used for testing CM17A support.

## Support

Please open an issue here on Github.

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2021 Mark Motley

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
